---  
layout: post  
title:  "Votaka is a Decision Dashboard for your Organization"  
date:   2015-09-29 08:41:05  
---  

Votaka is an online decision tracker and agenda manager for __small
and medium-sized organizations__ (fewer than 1,000 voting entities)
that want to simplify the process of decision making, ensure that all
documents and notes are permanently available, and publish certified
voting results.  The actual voting process can be entirely electronic,
or a mix between electronic and manual methods.  To accomplish this,
we make heavy use of the bitcoin _blockchain_ and the _bittorrent_
protocol.  The primary goal of this project is to develop a workable
approach to internet voting.  It might (or might not) also result in
working software.  We are focusing our attention on organizations that
primarily meet online or any group with open record requirements.

The current approach borrows heavily from ideas that were developed
for [_colored bitcoins_][colored].  There are several approaches to
coin coloring.  Votaka uses the flavor developed by
[ColoredCoins.org][ccorg] and [Colu][colu].  There are several other
interesting approaches, notably [OpenAssets][openassets].

A word of caution: While I think that the Votaka approach can
reasonably be considered _pseudonymous_, true anonymity is difficult
to achieve with currently available tools.  Thus, Votaka is __not
suitable for political elections__ or any situation in which real
anonymity is required.  Viewer discretion is advised.

* If you want to hold internet votes and need real anonymity, you
  probably should start with existing products like [Helios] or
  [Scantegrity].
* Political elections have a much stricter set of constraints than
  what is being considered here (and probably preclude internet votes
  entirely).  If you're interested in running a political election,
  look at [STAR-Vote][starvote] and [BlockchainTechCorp][bctech].

[colored]:https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Colored_Coins
[ccorg]:http://coloredcoins.org/
[colu]:https://www.colu.co/
[openassets]:https://github.com/OpenAssets/open-assets-protocol/blob/master/specification.mediawiki
[helios]:https://vote.heliosvoting.org/
[scantegrity]:http://scantegrity.org/
[starvote]:https://www.usenix.org/conference/evtwote13/workshop-program/presentation/bell
[bctech]:http://blockchaintechcorp.com/blockchain-apparatus/
